Docs: Reporting redesign docs (#105078)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/dashboards/create-reports/_index.md

Author: Yep!

> You can configure several elements of these reports and generate PDFs, CSV files, and embedded images.

Author: I think we're referring to the dashboard image here. I can make that clearer.

The report creation process is multi-step, but you don't need to complete these steps in order and you can skip steps by clicking a step name at the top of the page.

> You can also save the report as a draft at any step in the process.

Author: ```suggestion
You can also save the report as a draft at any step in the creation process.
```

Reviewer: awesome. much clearer

> You can also save the report as a draft at any step in the process.

Author: Yes, exactly. I updated the text so it says during the report creation process to make that clearer.

1. Click **+ Create a new report**.
1. Update the name of the report, if needed.

   By default, the report name is the name of the dashboard.

1. Expand and complete each section of the report, as needed:
   - [Dashboards](#1-dashboards)
   - [Schedule](#2-schedule)
   - [Email settings](#3-email-settings)
   - [Recipients](#4-recipients)
   - [Attachments](#5-attachments)
1. Click one of the following buttons at the bottom of the **Schedule report** drawer:

   - The menu icon to access the following options:
     - **Download CSV**
     - **Preview PDF**
     - **Report settings** - Takes you to **Reporting** and opens the **Report template settings** drawer, where you can configure organization-level report settings.
   - **Send preview** - Send a preview of the report to your desired recipient. You can choose to use the report recipients:

     {{< figure src="/media/docs/grafana/dashboards/screenshot-send-preview-v12.0.png" max-width="350px" alt="The Send preview modal" >}}

   - **Schedule report** - The report is sent according the schedule you've set.

>    - **Save draft** - You can save a draft at any point during the report creation or update process, even if it's missing required fields. The report won't be sent according to its schedule while it's a draft.

Author: ```suggestion
   - **Save draft** - You can save a draft at any point during the initial report creation process, even if it's missing required fields. The report won't be sent according to its schedule while it's a draft.
```

>    To delete the report draft, click the **x** at the top of the drawer without scheduling or saving the report as a draft. This action can't be reversed.

Author: I've tried to make what I'm saying clearer.

{{< /tab-content >}}
{{< tab-content name="Create a report from Reporting" >}}

1. In the main menu, click **Dashboards > Reporting**.
1. Click **+ Create a new report**.

   The **Schedule report** drawer opens.

1. Enter a name for the report.
1. Expand and complete each section of the report, as needed:
   - [Dashboards](#1-dashboards)
   - [Schedule](#2-schedule)
   - [Email settings](#3-email-settings)
   - [Recipients](#4-recipients)
   - [Attachments](#5-attachments)
1. Click one of the following buttons at the bottom of the **Schedule report** drawer:

   - The menu icon to access the following options:
     - **Download CSV**
     - **Preview PDF**
     - **Report settings** - Opens the **Report template settings** drawer where you can configure organization-level report settings.
   - **Send preview** - Send a preview of the report to your desired recipient. You can choose to use the report recipients:

     {{< figure src="/media/docs/grafana/dashboards/screenshot-send-preview-v12.0.png" max-width="350px" alt="The Send preview modal" >}}

   - **Schedule report** - The report is sent according the schedule you've set.

>    - **Save draft** - Save a draft at any point during the report creation or update process, even if it's missing required fields. The report won't be sent according to its schedule while it's a draft.

Author: ```suggestion
   - **Save draft** - Save a draft at any point during the initial report creation process, even if it's missing required fields. The report won't be sent according to its schedule while it's a draft.
```

>    To delete the report draft, click the **x** at the top of the drawer without scheduling or saving the report as a draft. This action can't be reversed.

Author: ```suggestion
   If you click the **x** at the top of the drawer without scheduling or saving the report as a draft, the report is discarded. This action can't be reversed.
```

> You can also save the report as a draft at any step in the process:

Reviewer: we're still debating if we want this behavior or only let the user save a report as a draft if it wasn't created yet

![Reporting wizard](/media/docs/grafana/dashboards/screenshot-reporting-wizard-v11.5.png) <!-- update screenshot -->

You can create directly from a dashboard or from the Reporting page.
Select one of the following tabs for directions on each option.

To create a report, follow these steps:

{{< tabs >}}
{{< tab-content name="Create a report directly from a dashboard" >}}

1. In the main menu, click **Dashboards**.
1. Navigate to the dashboard from which you want to create a report.
1. Click the **Share** drop-down list in the top-right corner of the dashboard.
1. Click **Schedule report**.

    The **Schedule report** drawer opens. Any other reports using this dashboard are listed in the drawer.

1. Update the name of the report, if needed.

    By default, the report name is the name of the dashboard.

1. Expand and complete each section of the report, as needed:

>    - [Dashboard](#1-dashboard)

Reviewer: this changed to "Dashboards" (plural)

>    - [Dashboard](#1-dashboard)

Author: ```suggestion
   - [Dashboards](#1-dashboards)
```

| Option | Description |
| ------ | ----------- |
| Source dashboard (required) | Select or update the dashboard from which you want to generate the report. If you've created your report directly from a dashboard, this field is already filled in with the name of the current dashboard. |
| [Time range](#time-range) | Update the report time range. If you've created the report directly from a dashboard, the default time range is that of the dashboard. Otherwise, the default time range is **Last 6 hours**. |
| [Customize template variables](#customize-template-variables) | Select and customize the variable values for the selected dashboard. This section is only displayed if the dashboard has variables. |
| + Add dashboard | Add more dashboards to the report. |

<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

#### Time range

If you leave the **Time range** field empty, reports use the saved time range of the dashboard.
Optionally, you can change the time range of the report by setting it in the **Time range** field.
If specified, the custom time range overrides the time range from the report's dashboard.

#### Customize template variables

> This option is only displayed if the dashboard has variables.
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

> You can configure report-specific template variables for the dashboard on the report page.

Author: I'm not sure what you mean by "global" since the sentence is talking about it being "report-specific".

> This option is only displayed if the dashboard has variables.
> 
> You can configure report-specific template variables for the dashboard on the report page.

Author: ```suggestion
This option is only displayed if the dashboard has variables.

Configure report-specific template variables for the dashboard.
```

The variables that you select override the variables from the dashboard.
For detailed information about using template variables, refer to [Variables](ref:templates-and-variables).

The query variables saved with a report might become out of date if the results of that query change.
For example, if your template variable queries for a list of hostnames and a new hostname is added, then it won't be included in the report.
If that occurs, the selected variables must be manually updated in the report.

> If you select the **All** value for the template variable or if you keep the dashboard's original variable selection, then the report stays up-to-date as new values are added.

Author: ```suggestion
If you select the **All** value for the template variable or if you keep the dashboard's original variable selection, then the report stays up-to-date as new values are added.

This option is only displayed if the dashboard has variables.
```

| Option | Description |
| ------ | ----------- |
| Source dashboard (required) | Select or update the dashboard from which you want to generate the report. If you've created your report directly from a dashboard, this field is already filled in with the name of the current dashboard. |

> | [Time range](#time-range) | Update the report time range. If the dashboard is preselected, the default time range is that of the dashboard. Otherwise, the default time range is **Last 6 hours**. |

Author: ```suggestion
| [Time range](#time-range) | Update the report time range. If you've created the report directly from a dashboard, the, the default time range is that of the dashboard. Otherwise, the default time range is **Last 6 hours**. |
```

> | [Time range](#time-range) | Update the report time range. If the dashboard is preselected, the default time range is that of the dashboard. Otherwise, the default time range is **Last 6 hours**. |

Author: Actually, having thought about it because of your comment on the variables, with the time range, I'm pointing out that there's a default that's already there before you choose your dashboard if you start at Reporting--but maybe that doesn't matter? Because as soon as you choose a dashboard, the dashboard time range is populated. What do you think?

| [Customize template variables](#customize-template-variables) | Select and customize the variable values for the selected dashboard. This section is only displayed if the dashboard has variables. |
| + Add dashboard | Add more dashboards to the report. |

<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

#### Time range

If you leave the **Time range** field empty, reports use the saved time range of the dashboard.
Optionally, you can change the time range of the report by setting it in the **Time range** field.
If specified, the custom time range overrides the time range from the report's dashboard.

> The page header of the report displays the time range for the dashboard's data queries.

Author: I mean here:
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/2f9ca970-52b7-4123-b0ff-c9443df901e5)

Is there another way you can suggest to word this? Or maybe it doesn't need to be there?

> The page header of the report displays the time range for the dashboard's data queries.

Reviewer: mmm I think it's redundant information and I didn't understand the meaning of the part of 
` the dashboard's data queries.`
But if you think it's relevant, let's leave it

> The page header of the report displays the time range for the dashboard's data queries.

Author: I'll take it out

> 
> The page header of the report displays the time range for the dashboard's data queries.

Author: ```suggestion
```

- **Attach a CSV file of table panel data** - Attach a CSV file to the report email for each table panel on the selected dashboard.

#### PDF format

If you selected a PDF attachment, configure the following formatting options:

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->

| Option                          | Description                                                                                     |
|---------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Orientation                     | Set the report orientation in **Portrait** or **Landscape**. Refer to the [Layout and orientation table](#layout-and-orientation) to see examples. |
| Layout                          | Select one of the following:<ul><li>**Simple** - Renders each panel as full-width across the PDF.</li><li>**Grid** - Renders the PDF with the same panel arrangement and width as the source dashboard.</li></ul>Refer to the [Layout and orientation table](#layout-and-orientation) to see examples. |
| Zoom                            | Zoom in to enlarge text in your PDF or zoom out to see more data (like table columns) per panel. |

> | Combine all dashboard PDFs in one file     | Click the checkbox if you want to generate one PDF file for all the dashboards included in the report. |

Author: ```suggestion
| Combine all dashboard PDFs in one file     | Click the checkbox if you want to generate one PDF file for all the dashboards included in the report. This option is only displayed if there are multiple dashboards in the report. |
```

> | Show template variables         | Click the checkbox to show dashboard variables.                    |

Author: ```suggestion
| Show template variables         | Click the checkbox to show dashboard variables. This option is only displayed if the report contains variables. |
```

> | [Include table data as PDF appendix](#table-data-in-pdf) | Add an appendix of the dashboard table data to the report PDF. This is useful when there's more data in your table visualization than can be shown in the dashboard PDF. Public preview only. |

Author: ```suggestion
| [Include table data as PDF appendix](#table-data-in-pdf) | Add an appendix of the dashboard table data to the report PDF. This is useful when there's more data in your table visualization than can be shown in the dashboard PDF. _Public preview only._ |
```
